Metadata and comments for the Hayes et al. paper "A generalizable informed curtailment model for reducing bat fatalities and improving operational flexibility at wind facilities". 

Prepared by Mark A. Hayes, March 12, 2018. 

The csv "bsgf carcass dataframe – mah - 03122018.csv" contains the dataframe used in the final analysis and includes the following information:

Column A, "date": The date of carcass observation, expressed in the form MM/DD/YYYY (e.g., 7/15/2015).
Column B, "pooled_c": The number of bat carcasses of all species (pooled species data) found at control turbines on a given day.  
Column C, "pooled_t": The number of bat carcasses of all species (pooled species data) found at treatment turbines on a given day.  
Column D, "laci_c": The number of hoary bat carcasses found at control turbines on a given day.  
Column E, "laci_t": The number of hoary bat carcasses found at treatment turbines on a given day.
Column F, "labo_c": The number of eastern red bat carcasses found at control turbines on a given day.  
Column G, "labo_t": The number of eastern red bat carcasses found at treatment turbines on a given day.
Column H, "lano_c": The number of silver-haired bat carcasses found at control turbines on a given day.  
Column I, "lano_t": The number of silver-haired bat carcasses found at treatment turbines on a given day.
Column J, "epfu_c": The number of big brown bat carcasses found at control turbines on a given day.  
Column K, "epfu_t": The number of big brown bat carcasses found at treatment turbines on a given day.
Column L, "mylu_c": The number of little brown bat carcasses found at control turbines on a given day.  
Column M, "mylu_t": The number of little brown bat carcasses found at treatment turbines on a given day.
Column N, "pesu_c": The number of tri-colored bat carcasses found at control turbines on a given day.  
Column O, "pesu_t": The number of tri-colored bat carcasses found at treatment turbines on a given day.
Row 80, “sum”: The sum of all carcasses found for a given category.  


This analysis should be independently reproducible using the data provided in the csv, the R code in "BSGF fatality estimates using estimateN_custom - 03122018.R", 
and following the methods section of the manuscript. Repetition of the analysis may result in slightly different results, though we repeated this analysis twice
and both sets of runs resulted in identical average simulation results. The R code uses the R package 'Carcass', which is cited in the manuscript.  

